*Inpired by this video from Russian creator: https://youtu.be/BwcznghxxHk?si=dKYFBOzIPwtE7SWY*

**CURRENT TASKS**
(!) Inside chat.types include column names and data types for each table, make it clear what values are necessary/optional for successful entry

Each user (careful brainstorming):
- Needs to have a list of contacts (ability to add/remove them)
- Can only have single 1 on 1 chat with other user (don't create new chat if old one exists)
- Adding/modifying chat participants needs to include updates to "participant_count" of "chats" table, which is 1 by default
- After all above is done proceed to messages table, connect it to chat_id and filter results by most recent creation date (to allow join with chat table and display preview of last message)

**AIM AND MOTIVATION**
1) Get closer to building more real-life related projects and services
2) Train muscle memory and overall speed of completing React/NextJS projects. Knowing the design beforehand saves a lot of time and headache, so coding is the area of focus
3) An interesting challenge for me, also chat apps are extemely popular. I aim to get most of my questions answered about the process behind making the chat app. Like how do developers come up with unusual shapes for messages, is it just more-or-less simpler CSS or do they mostly use finished solutions which look like complicated formulas? I hope the project provides clearer distinction between use of HTTP requests and sockets, when it comes to nearly LIVE communication. I also want to know how lots of chat and user data is typically stored
4) Project seemed very overwhelming to think about, since I keep asking questions about the process too much. So I just decided to do it, only by doing something hard other stuff becomes too simple
5) Observe more experienced person make various decisions and explain their thinking processes. Since I don't have a programming job yet, only that and doing projects is the fastest way to progress. I need to understand what is going in their head, their priorities, strategies and shortcuts. Since I am not new to webdev I can critically and sometimes even objectively rate decisions of people who are more skilled than me. Nobody is perfect, so spotting their mistakes adds to total knowledge 
6) Get better and technlogies like Next.js and NextAuth, which are demanded skills due to their constant changes, Auth5 will become stable, Next.js changed to App Router and replaced many server-side functions... All of this requires people who will be willing to try new features and see their effectiveness. Doing different projects and observing what community has to teach you and their observations of new React and Next.js features is much more valuable than reading documentation, which doesn't show or doesn't realize some practical applications of their features 


**WHAT HAVE I LEARNT?**
- About existance of "react-hook-form" and "react-form-toast" libraries, which simplify front-end processes related to form inputs and client-side feedback. I often question the need to add another dependency, but outsourcing some repetivive and long work does save time and mood
- Saw video author using OOP as a method of abstraction and simplification of calling fetch() API. Originally I implemented it, however additional async layer just brought more chaos than structure. It does look like a good alternative to writing separate API routes and turn requests more into functions rather than setting up headers and body objects, checking conditions... This has it's use in situation where external API, in the video he did it to interact with Strapi, or when there are many similar API routes and very insignificant differences between them other than DB query. Might look into React Query later...
- I got better at understanding OAuth2 standard and how NextAuth works, which is relatively simple but due to so much informaiton being in places other than their documentation it's harder than it has to be. Auth 5 (beta) improves the syntax of session obtaining process, so useSession() for client and auth() for everything else, however I would advice to find someone to explain it to you, since having a project to do and having to find proper explanations to some things in their documentation isn't worth it. PG module for interacting with Postgres has compatibility errors with Edge Runtime among with some other db modules from what I have understood, if it's called within signIn() callback of NextAuth(), but no problems doing same processes inside credential provider authorize() callback, meaning to register users from external providers you need to make separate POST API route, which isn't necessary given that Next.js server actions are similar thing but also CORS protected (at least they say so)


**BIG PART OF CODE COPIES THE CODE IN INSPIRATION VIDEO. BUT WHAT HAVE I DONE DIFFERENTLY?** 
1) Simplified styling. In the video he creates a lot of small separate SCSS files for components with CSS properties along with Tailwind's @apply directive. While it's commonly used, it is even discoouraged by Tailwind's maker himself.
- Instead, I have a single "index.css" file to define @font-face directives
- Use that separate "index.css" file to apply font-side, font-family and other general CSS properties or Tailwind classes to main HTML elements like <html> and <body>
- When it comes to more complicated CSS code like animations (@keyframe directive) with many arbitrary values or a set of Tailwind Classes which are extremely reusable within the app, index.css file is suitable for defining those things. In my experience, Theme Extend in "tailwind.config.ts" helps to replace CSS variables and come up with reusable Tailwind Classes there instead of on separate .css/.scss file
2) Clearer use and application of Tailwind Classes. Video's creator writes either writes CSS and Tailwind on small separate files near his components. While writing Tailwind directly within HTML/JSX is conventional, it pollutes the code and not everyone on developer team may have extensions to hide/unhide these classes. 
- Instead I use a strategy from my previous project which is Mangopost Website (it got its issues and weaknesses due to being my first Next.js project, but shows some interesting reusable programming techniques anyway) where Tailwind classes are written as string values within an object/dictionary and later accessed in JSX 
- Storing Tailwind classes in separate object named "styling" puts all classes near each other, which enables quick editing and styling control for both parent and children components. Instead JSX includes more conditional logic, rendering and style application making the big picture much clearer
- Additionally another Tailwind styling strategy from my Mangopost Website will be used in this project, where child components will have their wrapper elements (like wrapper <div> elements) inside parent components, which allows quicker layout control from "styling" object of the parent. *E.g: main component for webpage includes other big 4 <section> components located in 4 other .jsx/.tsx files. Would you rather copy paste the styles for <section> elements into different files and edit them one by one and having them not match sometimes due to a small mistake or keep them all within parent component? I would store them in parent component. I prefer to open and edit specific <section>'s and components on separate files only when their styling or logic is unique*. As other Next.js content creator ByteGrad states (not a direct quote): There has to be one source of truth in React. I agree, when programming logic and styling are shared between components, it better be kept and accessed in one place and having multiple similar sources of truth in React is distracting and goes against its reusability principles
3) Less complicated folder structure. Video's author uses a separate 'Components' folder which arguably helps the structure and readability, but in practice requires more time to switch between folders and files in App Router to folders and files in "Components" folder outside of App Router
- I keep all components in App Router, which allows Private Folders (with <_folderName> syntax) and is ignored by routing system, making it suitable for storing layout and UI components
- Also components don't need to be stores in separate folders, they can be placed in same directory page.tsx and layout.tsx files they belong to and as long as they don't have reserved names (like page.tsx, layout.tsx, route.tsx) they will be ignored by routing system. Keeping components and related files closer to one another leads to better organization and imrpoved readability
4) Database and user information will be managed in Next.js instead of Strapi. While Video's author wanted to use finished solution, I am not yet experienced enough in native Next.js, REST API and OAth 2.0 concepts and for my personal development I would rather do things manually at least this time, till I get better at it
- Instead of Strapi, I will use node-postgres to manage connections to PostgreSQL
- Instead of Strapi, I will manually make user connections and roles using a separate table in PostgreSQL
